---
layout: post
title: Blog is up and running!
---

Welcome to my Blog - **A Tech & Energy journey**

Interested in coding / tech but not sure where to start?  You'll find some great resources listed below.

Don't want to jump right into 'serious' programming?  Have a look at how to create websites using HTML &
CSS - 'markup' coding is a great entry point.

It's worth doing some research and finding particular areas that interest you, 

I did a lot of research on programming languages before settling on Python - there are a multitude of great
languages out there, all with different strengths and weaknesses depending on what you want to do.

I wanted to gain good level of competency across web development and data science - Python was a natural choice
here, however am now also working with Javascript - it's the de-facto language of the web!

Both of these languages are beginner-friendly and a great place to start - I have a tech background so a
lot of the concepts were not new to me, however the resources below are great even if you don't have
any programming experience whatsoever (especially Automate the boring stuff with Python).

So what's stopping you?  The tech space is experiencing massive growth - get stuck in!





Also, I recently started the Microsoft Azure Fundamentals course - a good knowledge of how to manage
the cloud infastructure that supports the majority of today's large application deployments is critical.
Am looking to take the certification exam next month.

Microsoft also offer a lot of useful free courses - check them out here
