---
layout: post
title: Alternative learning techniques
---

As you can see from the gap in dates my blogging is not exactly consistent right now!  It’s tough to keep the plates spinning sometimes – family, work, building web apps, Linkedin engagement etc, not to mention getting some downtime….  Which brings me to the point of this post.
How can you boost your learning if you are seriously time constrained?  **Here are some ideas;**
* First, the most obvious one - your mobile or tablet is a great reference asset – optimise it;
  * Configure your browser – organise relevant material into structured folders (latest Chrome mobile update is great for this) 
  * Search for PDF ‘cheat sheets’ (Python ones are good examples), you can also make your own – add these to your cloud storage & create desktop shortcuts
  * Books – photograph relevant pages for later review
  * Youtube – there are loads of focused 10 minute ‘bitesize’ tech vids 
  * Document learnings or ideas on your phone – use Evernote or something similar (I like the simplicity of [ColorNote](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.socialnmobile.dictapps.notepad.color.note&hl=en_GB&gl=US))
  * Podcasts – listen on the move / in the car – Spotify is a good resource for these
  * Use platforms optimised for mobile learning (see [SoloLearn](https://john-e-davidson72.github.io/my_website/sololearn/) post)
* Go old school – get some books!  Cut down your screen time a bit, [this one is a great for expanding your Python knowledge](https://realpython.com/products/python-tricks-book/), I always have it to hand
* Always have a small note pad handy, [writing stuff down is proven to help retention](https://medium.com/skilluped/how-to-take-notes-for-maximum-retention-a87e9c63b14c)
* Try to leverage learnings quickly – find a practical application or pain point that could be remedied by applying the knowledge you’ve recently acquired
* Challenge your recall – during a quiet period try and recall five key points from a topic you are working through

When you’re under time-pressure, it’s focus & consistency, not goals that win – try the techniques above to see if they help you to retain information.  This could be before you take your next course assessment or certification exam, or if you’re learning to implement a new library.  If you can’t spend hours studying a topic, every minute counts.
If you do eventually have time to study properly you’ll be on a better footing.  

Another thing to remember - don’t fight your natural circadian clock!  I’m switched on in the morning and at night between 8pm – 11pm, I tend to stick to these times if I can have longer study sessions.  Late afternoon and early evening are not good for me – I’m a bit 😩 then 😀.
You will forget stuff, there will be days when you won’t do anything meaningful, life will just get in the way – but remember – _**persistence always wins**_.
